# py-squaremap-combiner <!-- omit in toc -->

[![Python
3.12](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.12-blue.svg)](https://www.python.org/downloads/release/python-3120/)

Python script written to combine the images generated by the
[squaremap](https://modrinth.com/plugin/squaremap) Minecraft plugin. Not
affiliated with squaremap or its authors.

The seed used for the world the sample images were created from is
`-2590089827693666277`.

Until I release version 1.0.0, I do not consider this project stable ---
there are bound to be a number of bugs or quirks that I haven\'t
discovered and/or fixed yet, and the code will likely be seeing
frequently large changes until that point. Right now version bumps are
made subjectively and each bump just increases the minor version, but
after 1.0.0 I plan to stick to semantic versioning.

## Contents <!-- omit in toc -->
- [Features](#features)
- [Usage: Setup](#usage-setup)
- [Usage: Logs](#usage-logs)
- [Usage: Using the CLI](#usage-using-the-cli)
- [CLI Options](#cli-options)
    - [`-h, --help`](#-h---help)
    - [`-o, --output-dir PATH`](#-o---output-dir-path)
    - [`-ext, --output-ext EXTENSION`](#-ext---output-ext-extension)
    - [`-t, --timestamp FORMAT_STRING`](#-t---timestamp-format_string)
    - [`-ow, --overwrite`](#-ow---overwrite)
    - [`-a, --area <X1 Y1 X2 Y2>`](#-a---area-x1-y1-x2-y2)
    - [`-fs, --force-size <WIDTH [HEIGHT]>`](#-fs---force-size-width-height)
    - [`-g, --grid-interval <X_INTERVAL [Y_INTERVAL]>`](#-g---grid-interval-x_interval-y_interval)
    - [`-gcf, --coords-format`](#-gcf---coords-format)
    - [`-sf, --style-file`](#-sf---style-file)
    - [`-so, --style-override`](#-so---style-override)
    - [`-y, --yes-to-all`](#-y---yes-to-all)

## Features

- Stitch all images for a given world into a single large map
- Export an image of only a certain region of the Minecraft world, by
    their in-game coordinates
- Grid overlay for maps, representing in-game coordinates
  - Grid lines and coordinate text can be toggled individually, and
    styled to a given color, font, and font size

## Usage: Setup

Install the package with pip
(`pip install git+https://github.com/svioletg/py-squaremap-combiner.git`).
It can then be used either as a module in another project\...

```python
from squaremap_combine.combine_core import Combiner

combiner = Combiner('my-tiles')
map_image = combiner.combine('minecraft_overworld', 2)
map_image.save('output.jpg')
```

...run via the `-m` switch...

```bash
python3 -m squaremap_combine my-tiles overworld 2 --output-ext jpg
```

...or run as its own command.

```bash
squaremap-combine my-tiles overworld 2 --output-ext jpg
```

A GUI version of the script is also available. Install the GUI dependencies by adding `[gui]` to the end
of the package's name during installation, and then run the GUI by either adding a `gui` argument to the CLI command...

```bash
squaremap-combine gui
```

...or using the `squaremap-combine-gui` command. The main difference between these two methods is that
the former will keep a command prompt or terminal window open while the GUI app runs, and the latter
does not open any sort of terminal.

## Usage: Logs

This project uses [loguru](https://github.com/Delgan/loguru) for its
logging. Logging is disabled by default, but enabled at the
`INFO` level when running the package as a command. If
you\'re importing any modules from this package and want to make use of
its logs, import `logger` from the `combine_core` module and use `helper.enable_logging()` to
enable log output.

Logs are recorded to disk in a `logs` directory where the
package was installed, the location of which can be revealed by running
the script with the `--find-logs` option.

```bash
python3 -m squaremap_combine --find-logs
```

By default, the five most recent log outputs are kept and named by the
date and time at which they were created. If there are already five log
files present, the oldest file is deleted before writing a new one. An example file structure may look like below:

```bash
    (package directory)
    ├───logs
    |   ├───2023-06-16_09-44-06.log
    |   ├───2023-12-22_03-21-02.log
    |   ├───2024-01-03_15-03-10.log
    |   ├───2024-08-09_03-58-07.log
    |   └───2024-08-09_07-41-07.log
    ├───combine_core.py
    └───combine_cli.py
    etc.
```

## Usage: Using the CLI

To find squaremap's tiles, go to the folder your server JAR is in, and
then navigate to `plugins/squaremap/web`. Inside, there will be a
`tiles` folder which likely contains folders like `minecraft_overworld`,
`minecraft_the_nether`, and `minecraft_the_end`. You will supply the
path to this `tiles` folder for the script to work, and then specify a
"world" (dimension) to use the tiles of, which will be one of the
three aformentioned subfolders -the `minecraft_` prefix can be omitted
when entering them, but you should not alter the folder names
themselves.

After these two, specify what detail level to use, any number from 0
through 3. Level 3 is the highest detail and thus will result in the
largest image, while 0 is the lowest detail and results in the smallest.

| Detail | Description |
|---|---|
| 3 | 1 block per pixel |
| 2 | 2x2 block area per pixel |
| 1 | 4x4 block area per pixel |
| 0 | 8x8 block area per pixel |

This is all you need to create a basic full-map image. Your command
might look something like this:

```bash
python3 -m squaremap_combine server-tiles overworld 3
```

Note that very large maps can of course easily result in very large
images, and it may take a while for the full image to be completed.

Beyond this, there are various options that can be given to the script
to alter its behavior. If you\'re not familiar with using the
command-line, these options are typed out after the main command, in any
order, with their associated values following directly after, like
`squaremap_combine tiles overworld 3 --option value --option-two value`.
If any of the options below are not used, their **default** is used
automatically.

## CLI Options

> Note: You can use either hyphens (`-`) or underscores (`_`) and the
> option will work the same, e.g. `--output-ext` or `--output_ext`

---

#### `-h, --help`

Displays information about every argument / option and their parameters.

---
#### `-o, --output-dir PATH`

Directory to save the completed image to. Defaults to the directory in which this script was run.

---
#### `-ext, --output-ext EXTENSION`

The output file extension (format) to use for the created image. Default is `png`.

---
#### `-t, --timestamp FORMAT_STRING`

Adds a timestamp of the given format to the beginning of the image
    file name. Default format `?Y-?m-?d_?H-?M-?S` will be used if no
    format is specified after this argument. See:
    <https://docs.python.org/3/library/datetime.html#format-codes> for
    formatting string examples.

> NOTE: Due to a quirk with the argparse library, you must use a question mark (?) instead of a percent symbol for any format strings.

---
#### `-ow, --overwrite`

Using this flag will allow the script to overwrite an existing file
    with the same target name if it already exists. By default, if an
    image with the same path already exists, a numbered suffix is added.

---
#### `-a, --area <X1 Y1 X2 Y2>`

A rectangle area of the world (top, left, bottom, right) to export
    an image from. This can save time when using a very large world map,
    as this will only combine the minimum amount of regions needed to
    cover this area, before finally cropping it down to only the given
    area. These values should be the coordinates of the area as they
    would be in the actual Minecraft world.

--no-autotrim

By default, excess empty space is trimmed off of the final image.
    Using this argument with disable that behavior.

> NOTE: Autotrimming is automatically disabled if `--force-size` or `--area` are used.

---
#### `-fs, --force-size <WIDTH [HEIGHT]>`

Centers the assembled map inside an image of this size. Can be used
    to make images a consistent size if you\'re using them for a
    timelapse, for example. Only specifying one integer for this
    argument will use the same value for both width and height.

---
#### `-g, --grid-interval <X_INTERVAL [Y_INTERVAL]>`

Defines the coordinate intervals to be used for any grid-based
    options. Grid is drawn relative to the coordinates of the Minecraft
    world being mapped. If only `X_INTERVAL` is given, the same value is
    used for `Y_INTERVAL`.

---
#### `-gcf, --coords-format`

A string to format how grid coordinates appear. Use \"{x}\" and
    \"{y}\" (curly-braces included) where you want the X and Y
    coordinates to appear, e.g. \"`X: {x} Y: {y}`\" could appear as
    \"`X: 100 Y: 200`\".

---
#### `-sf, --style-file`

A set of styling rules for the combiner, in the form of a path to a
    JSON file. The values set in this JSON file will override that of
    the default styling settings, and can then be overridden themselves
    by any values present in the JSON given for the --style-override
    argument, if it is present. See [the
    docs](https://squaremap-combine.readthedocs.io/en/latest/squaremap_combine/combine_core.html#CombinerStyle)
    for information on each styling rule.

---
#### `-so, --style-override`

A set of styling rules for the combiner, in the form of a
    JSON-formatted string. These values take highest priority on
    overriding the already set rules. See [the
    docs](https://squaremap-combine.readthedocs.io/en/latest/squaremap_combine/combine_core.html#CombinerStyle)
    for information on each styling rule.

---
#### `-y, --yes-to-all`

Automatically accepts any requests for user confirmation.

Using some of these options, your command may look something like this:

``` bash
python3 -m squaremap_combine tiles overworld 3 --area -700 -500 100 200 --timestamp --output-dir town-area --output-ext jpg -y
```
